# Service Networking

## Pods

The *kubelet* is the component responsible for managing pods on their respective node.

The *kubelet*:
- Listens to the *apiServer* for pod changes.
- Takes the appropriate actions accordingly.
- Invoke the CNI Plugin to allocate an IP address and creating the corresponding networking objects on the node.


## Services

Unlike pods, services are not associated to a specific node.

Services do not exists at all, they are virtual objects.<br>
They don't have network interfaces nor IP allocated to them.<br>
There is no process listening to an IP/Port.

Similarly to the kubelete for the pods, the *kube-proxy* watches the changes from the apiServer made on **Services**.

The *kube-proxy* assigns to a Service an IP address from a pre-defined range.

## kube-proxy proxy modes

The kube-proxy has 3 methods for redirecting traffic coming to a Service to the targeted pods:
- **iptables** (default)
- userspace
- ipvs

The mode can be chosen when running the kube-proxy service.
```bash
kube-proxy --proxy-mode [userspace | iptables | ipvs]
```

## IP ranges

Pods and Services have dedicated IP ranges within the cluster.<br>
Those 2 ranges must not overlap.
```bash
# Service IP range. Defaults to 10.0.0.0/24 if not configured.
kube-api-server --service-cluster-ip-range 10.96.0.0/12
```

The service-cluster-ip CIDR must not overlap with the pod-network-cidr which is by default 10.244.0.0/16

## IPTables

Each time a service is modified within the cluster, the kube-proxy processes of each node update the iptables rules of the node.

```bash
# See iptables rules for my-service
iptables -L -t nat | grep my-service
# Checks kube-proxy logs to see iptables rules creation
cat /var/log/kube-proxy.log
```
