# Kubeconfig

Accessing the kubernetes API requires authentication and passing this information:

```sh
kubectl get pods 
--server my-kube-cluster:6443
--client-key admin.key
--client-certificate admin.crt
--certificate-authority ca.crt
```

Typing those every time is a tedious task, so we need to move this information in a Kubeconfig file.

## Structure

A Kubeconfig is a yaml file made of 3 sections:

- **clusters**: the various kubernetes cluster we want to access.
- **users**: the user accounts with which you have access to these clusters.
- **contexts**: the links between the 2 previous notions. It associates users to clusters.

The --server and --certificate-authority information goes to the *clusters* section.
The --client-key and --client-certificate information goes to the *users* section.

Note: Instead of giving *certificate-authority* (path of the ca.crt) we often pass the base-64 encoded certificate content directly in a *certificate-authority-data* field.

The same applies for user's *client-certificate(-data)* and *client-key(-data)*.

```yaml
...
clusters:
- name: production
  cluster:
  certificate-authority: /path/to/ca.crt
  OR
  certificate-authority-data: LS0tLS1jfkr...
...
users:
- name: admin
  user:
    client-certificate-data: /path/to/admin.crt
    client-key-data: /path/to/admin.key
    OR
    client-certificate-data: LS0tLS1jfkr...
    client-key-data: LS0tLS1jfkr...

```

## Location

By default kubectl looks for the file at *~/.kube/config*.

This default location can be changes by setting the *KUBECONFIG* environment variable.

## Contexts

The in-use context is defined under the *current-context* value in the kubeconfig.

It can be changed using

```bash
kubectl config use-context admin-user@production
```

Each context links a user to a cluster.
It can also define a default namespace.

```yaml
...
contexts:
- name: admin@production
  context:
    cluster: production
    user: admin
    namespace: my-ns
```

## kubectl proxy

If we want to reach the cluster using only http requests, we have to pass all certificate/key info to every request.

Alternatively, the kubectl tool can proxy and server the cluster in the localhost using our Kubeconfig credentials under the hood.

```bash
kubectl proxy
# Starting to serve on 127.0.0.1:8001
curl localhost:8001/api/v1/pods
```
